OOTA ORIENTATON MAIN POINTS AND OUR PLAN

general theme: climate change
exact theme: climate change and consequent impacts on marginalized communities
no need to limit yourself to the exact theme, its just a plus point. think all kinds of ideas with an open mind

judges will be from mlabs and from the company they collaborating with

company judges are not experts in games, keep that in mind. they mainly care about relevance

details about what the company does:
cetnered around helping indus delta, Indus Delta People have 95 percent fish earnings and food. women face most problems in indus Delta.

The game will be focused around indus delta and should have high-extreme fun fator in it

remember to research these topics, both the exact theme and details about what the company does, in detail

mechanics examples:
spin, dice, cards, boards, tiles and many more (table top games, it can be literally anything)

some games examples:
ludo, good question, uno, taash(cards), puckets, twister

I highly recommend that you research tons of table top games and even mobile games. trust me help a LOTTTT.


scoring criteria:
idea / design, extendability (how much potential this game has to improve to become a full fleged board game), playability (game not broken and rules balanced etc), fun factor


some points on base of previous experience:
- keep the game extremely simple and easy to learn, goal is easy to learn and difficult to master
- the theme relevance is absurdly important as a lot of judges will be of that company, and it is more important than other points. even better if its about what the company does (see details above)
- presentation kinda matters, so make game pretty
- some observations from previous time:
1: judges did not care about the playability, or the game being a game. no one cared if eg the game is unbalanced or rules dont make sense or even if the whole thing is broken, they cared about just plain old fun factor and OBV theme relevance, in the end the game with the most relevance won. and all games that were made were broken.
2: we only got like 5 minutes to present our game to the judges, the were 2 stages, in first stage, each team went and in a small amount of time explained thier game and left. then teams were shortlist and in second stage they went and played a sample game in front of the judges. this was also really quick. and i am sure is dafa bhi aisa hi ho ga.

try to design the games in some details as well if you can but its fine if only a high level idea


if we can, we will create a prototype as well to test and improve the game


Some Research on which the game can be based upon:

In the impacted region of Pakistan, floods have led to extensive damage, including the burning of crops and general destruction caused by heatwaves. This has resulted in significant challenges related to food and water, prompting many people to leave their homes. Migration, however, proves to be an expensive and difficult action, particularly for generations deeply rooted in the areas they have lived for decades.

The Indus Delta is a focal point for climate change research. With a population of approximately 950, the residents, primarily engaged in fishing for survival, are extremely poor and vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. Climate change, defined as extreme conditions affecting the ability of an area to exist and develop without depleting natural resources, has garnered attention in this region.

One specific concern is the reduction in the flow of water in the Indus Delta, leading to seawater intrusion. This has rendered the groundwater saline and made access to fresh water extremely difficult. Women, who are responsible for fetching water, face additional hardships as they must walk long distances multiple times a day. Moreover, the contamination of available water sources further exacerbates the challenges faced by families in these communities.

The consequences of climate change also extend to agriculture, as the ground is no longer fertile. Families struggle to make do with contaminated water, and livestock and crop growth become increasingly challenging. Women, burdened with responsibilities such as fetching water and caring for children, find their daily lives severely impacted.

In the face of these challenges, migration becomes a tempting but difficult option. Men often go out to migrate in search of survival, leaving behind their families and adding to the suffering of women who are left to manage resources on their own. The cycle of hardship continues for these marginalized communities in the Indus Delta.





Make a game based on these theme factos
NOTE: 
The game SHOULD be easy to play and hard to master
The game SHOULD have a creative view to it and not just plain style , it should be creative and unqiue
the game SHOULD NOT be boring
the game SHOULD be highly relevant to the theme
the game SHOULD NOT be lengthy and should end quickly
the stakes SHOULD be high in the game
	

NOTE MUST FOLLOW AT ANY COST:
The Flood is coming the and players must migrate before the flood has come
you can pause the flood and stuff
Add Chess Factor to this as well